Detective Recapped here. Today, I'm going
to explain a Mystery-Romance film called:
"Killing Me Softly." Spoilers ahead! Watch
out and take care.
As a group of mountaineers climbs a snowy
cliff, a woman describes how the brain dies
from a lack of oxygen once a person reaches
a certain altitude. The brain just shuts down,
and the body goes along with it. The woman
says she can't stop thinking about what it
must have been like, and the person she's
talking to asks her to start from the beginning,
so she tells him her whole story.
An American woman named Alice describes her
life in London with her boyfriend, Jake. Alice
says she grew up on the plains in Indiana
and that she's always been a flatlander. She
had already been staying in London for a year
and a half, and the first six months have
been hard on her, but that changed upon meeting
Jake. Alice is a CD-Roms and Website designer,
while Jake is an engineer.
One day, Alice is about to cross the street
when she encounters a charming stranger. She
is completely enthralled by him as they cross,
and his very presence distracts her even after
they parted ways. Alice starts heading inside
her office, but she takes another look at
him and sees him entering a bookstore.
After being continually distracted and unsettled
at work, she finally heads out. Peeking inside
the bookstore, she sees that the man is waiting
in line with his friend. He looks at her,
embarrassing her, so she steps back and hides.
When she's finally about to go inside, Alice
finds herself face to face with the man, with
only the glass separating them.
She accepted the stranger's offer to get inside
a cab with him. Inside the car, the sensual
tension between them hangs heavy in the air.
After the man takes Alice home, he grabs her
from behind and starts kissing her. Alice
then kisses him back, and it isn't long before
they make torrid and passionate love. Once
they're done, Alice dresses and turns away,
embarrassed and perhaps even regretful. After
softly asking her to face him, the stranger
helps her put on her undergarment. Maintaining
a gentle tone, he invites her to come back
to his house again, but Alice keeps insisting
that she can't. In the end, he assures her
that she can come over whenever she wants
and that he'll be there when she does. That
night, Alice makes love with Jake, but it
feels different and not nearly as thrilling
as it did when she slept with the stranger.
The following day, Alice passes by the bookstore
with the hopes of seeing the stranger again.
Instead, she sees a poster of him along with
his book. There, she learns that the man is
Adam Tallis, a mountain climber who saved
six people with no oxygen. After buying Adam's
book, Alice goes straight to Adam's house,
where she finds him waiting for her by the
door. The two make love once more, and afterwards,
they lie on the floor.
Now resting, Alice tells Adam that she bought
his book. He corrects her, saying that it's
not his book; he's just in it. When she comments
that it looks good, he simply retorts that
people died. Adam gets up to smoke, then starts
telling Alice what happened. According to
Adam, he lost the whole group of mountaineers
he was with, including the woman he loved,
Francoise Collette. There was no room for
error, everything had been checked, yet he
still doesn't know what happened. He then
asks Alice if he knows what it's like over
20,000 feet, and when Alice shakes her head,
Adam stands and snatches his goldfish from
the aquarium. Adam shows Alice the fish as
it struggles to breathe, saying that's exactly
how it feels. Without air, the brain cells
die. Once the brain shuts down, the rest of
the body follows. He then puts the fish back,
saying that it's been two years, but the feeling
doesn't go away. Alice then kisses Adam before
finally confessing that she lives with someone.
Adam doesn't seem to mind, though, and when
Alice begins putting on her underwear, he
tells her not to.
At home, Alice unexpectedly tells Jake that
she has to leave him. Shocked, Jake walks
up to her and hugs her, and as Alice cries,
Jake insists that they're perfect together
and that he wants to marry her. Stifling a
sob, she admits that she met somebody, and
while Jake tries to keep himself from exploding,
all Alice could say is that she didn't mean
to hurt him. Finally, Jake lets out his anger
and turns over a small table, while Alice
only listens to him before walking out.
After heading to Adam's place, Alice meets
his sister, Deborah. She lets Alice know that
Adam isn't there at the moment before inviting
her inside. There, Deborah explains that Adam's
having some work done on his place, so he
stayed in her house while she was gone. As
she arranges her photos, Deborah explains
Adam's aversion to looking at them. Alice
points to a woman in one of the pictures,
asking if it's Francoise. Deborah confirms
this and tells her that Adam can't look at
the photos because it's hard for him to see
Francoise. While he's a brave guy, he can
get scared of remembering, and he forgets
that the accident wasn't solely his fault.
Deborah adds that she was with the mountaineers
when the accident happened and that Francoise
was her best friend. Finally, Deborah calls
Alice by name for the first time, and she
compliments her on her beauty, saying that
she can see why Adam fell so hard for her.
After that, Alice asks her for Adam's address.
Upon finding Adam's place, Alice rings his
doorbell several times, but there is no answer.
When Adam finally shows up, he hugs Alice
tightly as she tells him that she left Jake.
She starts telling Adam that he's hurting
her, but he ignores this and starts eagerly
kissing her. As usual, Alice returns his kiss,
ends up against a wall, and the two sleep
together again. The following morning, Alice
wakes up alone in bed, and when she gets out,
she sees Adam downstairs just coming in with
a woman. Adam introduces Joanna Noble to Alice,
and Joanna informs her that she's a reporter
from The Guardian, tasked to interview Adam
about his Himalayan clean-up project.
After greeting the reporter, Alice tries looking
for a shirt in Adam's closet but finds it
locked. Adam watches Alice going through his
drawer and finding a key, only to put it back.
Finally, she settles on the shirt that's on
the chair, and when Adam's phone rings, she
informs him about it. Adam then tells her
to answer it for him, and when she does, there's
nobody on the other line. Soon, Alice tells
him that she needs to go to work, and Adam
kisses her before asking her to see him afterwards.
Adam takes Alice wall climbing, where Deborah
sees her and helps her put on her harness.
As Adam gets down from the wall, he gently
pulls Deborah aside, saying he'll take it
from there. When he finished helping Alice
with her harness, Alice gets introduced to
Klaus, and she tells him that she liked his
book.
Later on, Alice meets up with her friend,
Sylvie. She disapproves of Alice destroying
her and Jake's lives by letting go of a man
who loves her just for a good bang. Alice
tries to defend herself by saying that when
she's with Adam, everything is just more.
As the two leave the bar, a man suddenly mugs
Alice before immediately running away.
Witnessing the whole thing, Adam chases the
guy and catches up to him by the telephone
booth, where he smashes the mugger's head
against the glass and beats him up badly.
Alice and Sylvie catch up to them, and Alice
tells Sylvie to call the cops while she runs
to Adam, telling him to stop. When Adam finally
relents, he embraces Alice and kisses her
deeply, promising her that that will never
happen again and that he will protect her.
The sight shocks Sylvie, but Adam and Alice
pay her no mind and start walking away. Out
of the blue, Adam proposes to Alice, saying
the sooner they get married, the better, and
Alice joyfully accepts.
One day, Alice receives a mysterious letter,
asking her what she really knows about Adam.
She shows Adam the telegram and informs him
about the call from that morning, saying someone
was on the line, but they weren't talking.
Adam says someone is just scaring her, and
as he lets her in his car, he reminds Alice
to tell him if anything like that happens
again. They then drive to Adam's family church
by the countryside to get married, where they
have two strangers as their witnesses. After
the ceremony, they get dressed at the way
station for hikers, where Adam takes a picture
of Alice while still naked.
They change into their hiking outfits, and
as Alice recalls what she did with Adam to
celebrate their marriage, the person she's
telling her story to is surprised to learn
that they went hiking on their wedding day.
As they walk in the wilderness, Alice quickly
gets worn out and sits down. Because of that,
Adam promises to give her an unforgettable
honeymoon then teaches her how to conserve
her energy. Adam then goes ahead, leaving
Alice by herself. Since she wants Adam to
be proud of her, she follows the trail for
hours until she finally reaches his cabin.
Inside, Adam makes an anchor and gives Alice
a long piece of silk, explaining that the
anchor is for catching a falling body. Without
hesitation, Alice lets Adam wrap the silk
around her neck and hook it on the anchor,
giving him control over her body. She lets
Adam decide when she can and cannot breathe,
and finally, after making love, Adam tells
her that he loves her. Alice continues her
story, recounting that they returned to London
and Joanna Noble's article came out. She was
happier than she'd ever been.
As Alice gets home one day, she receives another
mysterious letter, warning her that marrying
Adam was a mistake. She quickly calls Jake
but gets surprised when Sylvie answers the
phone. Sylvie tells Alice that she and Jake
have been seeing each other, but Alice doesn't
seem to mind. From the shower, Adam calls
Alice and tells her they'll be late, so Alice
ends the call with Sylvie. This time, Alice
doesn't show Adam the letter. They attend
a gathering together, and Alice feels completely
out of place. After looking at a picture of
Adam with Francoise, Alice goes to the bathroom,
where Deborah sees her wiping off her lipstick.
When Deborah asks if she's okay, Alice tells
her that she has a headache. To help her,
Deborah massages her hand and neck, and once
she's better, Alice thanks her sister-in-law.
Then, Deborah asks Alice to close her eyes,
and when she does, Deborah puts a necklace
around her neck. Downstairs, Klaus proposes
a toast to Alice, announcing that she has
conquered Adam. When Adam sees Alice with
his sister, he suddenly gets uncomfortable
but hugs them both anyway.
While in a meeting, Alice receives a call
from Joanna and informs her that she's just
received a weird note about Adam's article.
Alice receives the note through the fax machine.
It's from a woman who claims that Adam had
defiled her, and she's asking Joanna to report
the truth. Alice then receives the continuation
of the letter, which shows the name and contact
number of the sender, Michelle Stowe, who
says that she'll reveal the real story.
Upset, Alice leaves the office and goes to
Michelle's place. Meanwhile, Adam calls Alice's
office and learns that she's just left. Posing
as Joanna, Alice interviews Michelle about
the incident. Michelle recounts it to Alice,
saying she and Adam were kissing at a party
that time and before she knew it, Adam was
pulling her into the bushes and started forcing
himself on her until he overpowered her. Michelle
then sarcastically asks Alice if she'll write
an article about it, adding that they can
make some money out of it. However, Alice
tells her it doesn't work that way, especially
since she has no proof against Adam. Later
that day, Alice meets Joanna, who is unhappy
about what Alice did. She tells Alice that
she could get fired for her carelessness,
and Alice apologizes to her. Alice says she's
just really curious, but Joanna tells her
that curiosity gets people killed. Alice resolves
that she should trust Adam, and the two women
prepare to leave. Meanwhile, someone outside
the coffee shop puts out a cigarette.
That night, Alice contemplates how little
she knows about Adam. She's musing about how
everything she knows about him either came
from a book, a newspaper, or even shreds of
information from other people. With a strong
desire to know more, Alice takes the key that
she saw in the drawer the other day and opens
Adam's closet. In there, she finds a box of
letters from a woman named Adele Blanchard.
As she reads them, Alice learns that Adam
used to have an affair with a married woman.
Adele is telling Adam in her letters that
she's going back to her husband, and that
what they're doing is dangerous. Suddenly,
Adam arrives, and Alice hurriedly puts back
the letters inside the closet, struggling
to close it properly. When she finally does,
Alice greets Adam as if nothing happened.
The following morning, Adam informs Alice
that he called her office the previous day,
and her colleague said she was out. Alice
stammers that she had a doctor's appointment
but wasn't able to leave her meeting. Skeptical,
Adam asks where exactly the meeting was held,
and Alice nervously answers that it was at
The Hilton. Though he remains unconvinced,
Adam apologizes to her for being nosy. He
then shows Alice her necklace and asks where
she got it from, and Alice says Deborah gave
it to her. For a moment, there's a trace of
disbelief and uneasiness on Adam's face, but
it disappears quickly as he smiles, saying
Deborah has good taste. As Adam reads the
newspaper, Alice tells him about Michelle
Stowe's note and accusation. Adam is quick
to deny it, saying it never happened, and
that he's not surprised that Michelle contacted
her. Adam then apologizes to Alice for having
to hear that story, and before she could reply,
Klaus shows up to take Adam to a talk show.
Once they're gone, Alice goes through Adam's
drawer again to find the key to the closet,
but it isn't there. Suddenly, she hears the
sound of the wind chime from the front door,
and she immediately checks to see if Adam
is back. When she opens the door, Alice finds
a package on the floor, containing a letter
that asks her how far she'll let Adam go and
a long piece of silk with bloodstains, similar
to the one Adam used on her during their honeymoon.
Alice then quickly calls the Directory Inquiries
and asks if they have a listing for Adele
Blanchard on Marchmont Road. Posing as Joanna
again, Alice goes to Adele's house, where
Adele's mother greets her.
Alice learns from her that Adele's been missing
for eight months, and after Adele's mother
invites her inside, she tells Alice that Adele
hasn't even contacted her husband, Michael.
Then, she shows her Adele's photo album, where
she finds Adam in one of Adele's wedding pictures.
Adele's mother says her daughter used to climb
with Adam all the time, but that stopped two
years after she got married. She says Michael
got fed up with Adele's mountain climbing,
so in the end, Adele chose to stop. To her
horror, Alice also sees a naked photo of Adele
standing beside an angel's statue at the place
where they got married. Then, Adele's mother
mentions that Adam called her, asking for
updates on the investigation. When Adele's
mother tells Alice that Adam is also coming,
Alice immediately excuses herself and leaves,
secretly taking two photos of Adele. She throws
away her package before boarding the train
while repeatedly looking behind her.
That evening, Alice is startled when she suddenly
sees Adam in the dark corner of their house,
smoking. Adam then puts out his cigarette
and picks Alice up before binding her on the
table. Alice tries to protest, but Adam ignores
her and accuses her of being with another
man. When Alice denies it, Adam asks her why
she keeps sneaking around, and that's when
she admits that she's found Adele's letters.
Furious, Adam goes upstairs to retrieve the
letters and starts throwing them down to Alice,
saying he has nothing to hide. When he goes
back down, Alice asks him to untie her, but
Adam only sits on the floor and cries, lamenting
over how she wouldn't be in that position
if she trusted him.
Trying to get Adam's sympathy, Alice says
she just wanted to know him more so that she
could love him more. While he's crying, Adam
assures Alice that he's hers, and that he
loves her so much, he can break her neck.
Adam then asks if she likes what they're doing,
but she doesn't answer his question and instead
tells him that she needs to pee. After Adam
unties her, Alice escapes his house through
the fire exit, and Adam quickly goes after
her, begging her to stop. As she hides from
Adam, Alice witnesses how he could lose his
temper over small things and throw a fit.
Finally, it's revealed that the person Alice
has been talking to is a Senior Police Officer,
and she explains that that's when she came
to him. She asks him if they can open Adele
Blanchard's case, but the officer says it's
not easy to open a case like Adele's. Alice
retorts that Adam killed Adele, but the officer
says she has no proof of that. Still determined
to have Adam arrested, Alice tells him that
Adam forced himself on Michelle, but the officer
curtly replies that Michelle never reported
it. The only proof she has is the two photographs
of Adele, which prove nothing. The officer
then shows Adam through the double-sided glass,
telling the officers about Alice's escape
in the other interrogation room. She hears
Adam saying he loves her, and the officer
tells Alice that even though he believes Adam
has the potential for violence, he isn't sure
if he's a murderer. After closing the blinds,
the officer informs Alice that they can only
keep Adam for a few hours, adding that she's
accusing a hero while providing no evidence.
With no one to turn to, Alice asks for Deborah's
help to know the truth about Adam. After learning
from Deborah that Francoise was with someone
else, Alice infers that Francoise left Adam,
so he killed her. Deborah agrees with her
then she shows Alice two different anchors
used in climbing, one of which is made of
cheap material. She says Adam could've switched
the anchors, killing Francoise and her group.
Finally, Deborah advises Alice to leave Adam
for her own good. Scared, Alice tells Deborah
about Adele and gives her Adele's pictures.
Alice still thinks that Adam killed her, and
she must've been be buried at the location
in the picture, at Saint Edmund's. Then, Alice
asks Deborah to come with her to find Adele.
On their way to Saint Edmund's, Deborah confesses
to sending Alice the notes. She knows about
Adam's violence, and she wants her to get
away from him. Back at Deborah's place, Adam
finds the two photos of Adele, and after quickly
realizing where Alice is headed, he follows
her. At Saint Edmund's, Alice finds a body
buried in the dirt, wearing a necklace like
the one Deborah gave her. When Alice confronts
her about it, Deborah ominously says that
Adele didn't have to die if only she'd told
her that she was going back to Michael. With
a sneer, Deborah says she gave Adele a necklace,
too, and that she found it beautiful just
like Alice did. With Alice demanding to know
what Deborah did, the two women start fighting
and hitting each other.
Deborah aggressively admits to sleeping with
her brother when they were kids, adding that
she's the one who gave him his first piece
of silk. As they struggle, Deborah yells that
Adam is hers and attempts to hit Alice with
a shovel, but Adam shows up and tackles her
to the ground. Alice then runs away, and Adam
hits Deborah across the face, saying he was
never hers. As he starts looking for Alice,
Deborah is about to hit him at the back with
a shovel, but Alice shoots her with a flare
gun. Deborah dies in Adam's arms, leaving
him stunned and devastated. He confesses to
Alice that he and Deborah used to go there
together, and with a betrayed look, Adam says
that he thought Alice just had to trust him.
Deborah's body is taken by the cops the following
day, and so is Adam.
Two years later, Alice and Adam see each other
again at the airport, as he is going up the
escalator while she is going down. Neither
of them says anything, but they just look
at each other. When Adam reaches the top,
he stays there for a moment and looks at Alice
one last time before walking away. Meanwhile,
Alice starts thinking that a flatlander like
her can't live at a high altitude, right where
Adam is.